Create new blog post about WebPositive (#548)
haiku/website: content/blog/animortis/2021-08-10_positively_critical_webpositive_and_haiku.md

+++

Few components of Haiku are as important to the operating system and its functionality as the preferred web browser and internal project: WebPositive.  

In recent days, some users have expressed concern about a “disappearing text” bug, where some text on web pages will disappear for undetermined reasons. This issue is now fixed, but highlights the reason why WebPositive is so important.  

The history of WebPositive is as intricately woven into Haiku as BeOS was, and has served as a major effort for all the programmers and users of the operating system even as other web browsers are successfully ported, work for a little while, then, unfortunately, lose functionality and are abandoned.  

Developer PulkoMandy, whose real name is Adrien Destugues, lives in France and has been a key developer for Haiku and WebPositive since joining the team in 2009.  

WebPositive, sometimes called “Web+,” uses the WebKit1 engine. This engine was originally ported from KDE’s KHTML by Apple for their Safari browser and later brought into Google’s Chrome, Samsung’s phone browsers and more.  

“Few other browser engines have such portability and utility,” PulkoMandy said.  

> Haiku developer Ryan Leavengood started efforts to port the engine to create WebPositive in 2008. In 2009, WebPositive won a slot as part of the Google Summer of Code, and student developer Maxine Simon was able to get the browser in a “mostly usable” state while developer stippi built the browser framework itself.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Haiku developer Ryan Leavengood started efforts to port the engine to create WebPositive in 2008. In 2009, WebPositive won a slot as part of the Google Summer of Code, and student developer Maxime Simon was able to get the browser in a “mostly usable” state while developer Stephan Aßmus (stippi) built the browser framework itself.   
```

When PulkoMandy was hired, first as a paid developer before switching over as a volunteer to work on the WebKit port under WebPositive, there wasn’t a ton of new development going on with the software.  

> WebPositive wasn’t the only browser for Haiku. But with the additional portability and power of the WebKit1 engine as it existed at the time, the team decided to build it into  WebPositive and make it the official browser for the OS.  

Reviewer 2: grammar. Starting a sentence with "But"

Author: @kallisti5 Fixed!

> WebPositive wasn’t the only browser for Haiku, but with the additional portability and power of the WebKit1 engine as it existed at the time, the team decided to build it into  WebPositive and make it the official browser for the OS.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
WebPositive wasn’t the only browser for Haiku, but with the additional portability and power of the WebKit1 engine as it existed at the time, the team decided to build it into WebPositive and make it the official browser for the OS.
```
